Contribution to proposed RPP special issue, 'Acting Intentionally'

Proposed title: 'Understanding and Tracking Purposive Action'

What could someone represent that would enable her to track, at least within limits, others' purposive actions?  I shall detail three possibile views.  The first view involves representing intentions, the second involves teleological notions and the third involves motor representation.  It is coherent to suppose that different views are true of different types of subject---or, indeed, of a single subject.  After all, some subjects may employ more than one way of tracking purposive action.  My aim is to explicate the three views and their limits in sufficient detail to derive predictions capable of distinguishing the views from each other, and to link the resulting framework to developmental research on understanding action. 



Drawing on three leading accounts of what purposive action is, I shall detail three corresponding views about what someone might represent that would enable her to track purposive action.  (Of course, endorsing an account of purposive action does not straightforwardly involve commitment to any view about understanding purposive action.)  Each view 


One way to approach this question is by considering accounts of what purposive action is.  I shall consider three such accounts.  Corresponding to each of these accounts of purposive action there is a view about what someone might represent that would enable her to track purposive action.  For instance, consider accounts on which for an event to be a purposive action is for it to be appropriately related to an intention.  A corresponding view about purposive action would be that tracking purposive action involves representing intentions.  (Of course, endorsing an account of purposive action does not straightforwardly involve commitment to any view about understanding purposive action.)  I shall detail these views 

and determine ***predictions capable of distinguishing the hypothesis that this view was correct of the performance of a particular class of subject on a particular task.  I shall also ***link to developmental findings.
