for Pre-reflective and Reflective Processing in Social Interaction workshop
12-14 March 2012

The aim of the meeting is to bring together philosophers and neuroscientists interested in sensory-motor, perceptual, and cognitive mechanisms underlying social functioning with the aim of exploring the the role of pre-reflective/implicit and reflective/explicit processes in cooperative and competitive interactions. In particular, the aim is to bring together philosophers and researchers dedicated to more traditional Theory of Mind accounts, who have largely focused on reflective processes in social cognition, with proponents of an approach that emphasises pre-reflective enactment and engagement in social interactions

----------------------------------------

Ingredients of Joint Action, Reflective and Pre-reflective

What Is Shared Intention For?

This talk will argue that shared intention is indispensable for fully understanding social interaction.

Reflective processes in social interaction are often characterised in part by appeal to notions shared intention.  Since there are many incompatible accounts of what shared intention is, to understand what shared intention is we first need to understand what it is for.  A widely held view is that shared intention serves to distinguish those events which are joint actions from events that merely comprise several individual actions.  On this view, the notion of 



What distinguishes joint actions from events merely comprising two or more agents' actions?  What (say) distinguishes our joint action of painting a bridge from another case in which we simultaneously but independently paint a bridge?  It is widely assumed that this question has a single answer, and that the answer is shared intention.  








[backup]
Joint actions paradigmatically include two people painting a house together or lifting a heavy sofa together. What more is needed to understand what joint action is? Joint action is standardly characterised by appeal to shared intention (a technical notion) or some other ingredient distinguishing joint from individual action. By introducing the notion of a collective goal, we argue that it is possible to characterise joint action without shared intention or any other distinctive ingredient. This has implications for understanding what joint actions are and which abilities are involved in understanding or engaging in them; perhaps most relevantly it has implications for understanding what shared intentions are for.  